docker pc
too see command of docker

docker images
to see images present in local repocitory

donor docker pull {image name}
download image from docker hub (internet)

docker container ls
display list of running container in docker


docker container run -d alpine sh


docker container ls -a
it display list of all container that runned on docker


docker container run -it alpine sh
run alpine container and enter in their shell
-it means interactive terminal
sh  means shell

docker image pull alpine:latest
download latest image of alpine


docker conatainer exec -it vigilant_borg bash Or docker conatainer exec -it {container Name} bash
enter in shell of running container

docker container stop vigilant_borg 
stop container that run in background

docker container rm vigilant_borg 
remove container that run in background

docker image build -t myapp:latest .
buid  an image from dockerfile
-t means tag
{.} means docker file in current directory


docker container run -d --name web1 -p 8080:8080 test:latest
--name means name of container
-p     port settings 
first port number is for host 
second prot number is for container
test   means image name
latest means tag for image

docker login
to login in docker hub

docker tag testapp:latest usamajamil/testapp:latest
Create a tag TARGET_IMAGE that refers to SOURCE_IMAGE

docker push usamajamil/testapp:latest
push image to docker hub

docker image build -t sqlserver:v1 .
sqlserver means image name
v1        means tag of image


docker run --name test-html -d -p 9000:80 testhtml:latest
9000 means host port 
80   means container port
-d   means deamon mode


docker container ls
list of running container

docker container run -it -v /user/document/demov:/test alpine
-v                     means sync host volume to local to container
/user/document/demov       host volume
/test                      containrer Volume


docker image rm	$(docker image ls -q)	-f
remove all images in local repository

docker image ls -q
return all list of image IDs

$ docker container rm $(docker container ls -aq) -f
 -f means force so running process in container also be            destroyed


docker engine
?	deamon
?	containerd
?	runc

runc 

As	previously	mentioned,	runc	is	the	reference	implementation	of	the	OCI container-runtime-spec.	Docker,	Inc.	was	heavily	involved	in	defining	the	spec and	developing	runc. 

containerd
 In	order	to	use	runc,	the	Docker	engine	needed	something	to	act	as	a	bridge between	the	daemon	and	runc.	

We	mentioned	earlier	that	containerd	uses	runc	to	create	new	containers.	
